I want to show you again tonight usually
known as the crossroads of the world
Times Square in New York tonight
desolate again very few pedestrians very
few cars at the height of the
coronavirus care well good evening once
again des 1154 of the Trump
administration 230 days until the
presidential election and it's been one
week since the World Health Organization
declared the corona virus a pandemic the
number of confirmed cases in our country
is going up fast tonight it reaches over
60 eighty six hundred people note it has
been nearly two months since the first
case was diagnosed in this country as
you see 140 total fatalities as the
nation grapples with increasing
shutdowns the president has now adopted
a new stance when it comes to
positioning his effort to fight this
pandemic America to be out of wartime
footing in terms of fighting this virus
I look at it I view it as a in a sense
of wartime president while he may view
himself and wish to be viewed as a
wartime president now the problem with
that is the links that he has gone to to
diminish the virus the danger and the
approaching pandemic we're finding very
little problem very little problem now
you treat this like a flu it's going to
disappear one day it's like a miracle it
will disappear the Democrats are
politicizing the corona virus this is
their new hoax anybody that reads a test
gets a test suite they're there they
have
the tests are all perfect like the
letter was perfect
the transcription was perfect it will go
away just stay calm today Trump invoked
the Korean War era defense production
Act which allows him to order businesses
to make ventilators and masks for
healthcare workers as well as other
critically needed medical supplies we've
ordered millions of them but we need
millions for this a thing like this has
never been requested and it's never we
never had even think in terms of these
numbers but we need millions of masks
and all of that will be order we need
respirators we need ventilators is a big
thing because it's a complex piece of
equipment so we have a lot of
ventilators but we're gonna be ordering
more there's nobody ever sewn numbers
like this even with regard to testing
now we're getting highly sophisticated
tests and it's going very well but
nobody's ever heard of testing and the
kind of quantities that you're talking
about president said today this snuck up
on us while the president also announced
the government is taking further steps
to expand testing capacity it's still
impossible for many Americans to get
tested even those who are violently
symptomatic it remains true that your
ability to get tested right now in this
country depends on where you live who
you are and how much money you make in
news to our north we've now closed our
border with Canada to stop non-essential
traffic back and forth as you can guess
asylum seekers and other foreigners
attempting to enter illegally from
Mexico or being turned back this comes
as a new internal report from the
Department of Health and Human Services
first reported on by the New York Times
suggests a sobering timeframe for
recovery saying the pandemic quote will
last 18 months or longer and could
include multiple waves of illness late
today
US Congressman Mario diaz-balart of
Florida ben mcadams of utah became the
first two members of Congress to
announce they have contracted the corona
virus as the number of K
has increased there's new information
about the types of patients being
affected by this
there are concerning reports coming out
of France and Italy about some young
people getting seriously ill and very
seriously ill in the ICUs
it may have been that the millennial
generation our largest generation our
future generation that will carry us
through for the next multiple decades
there may be disproportional a number of
infections among that group and so even
if it's a rare occurrence it may be seen
more frequently in that group and be
evident now so we're looking at that
information very carefully we have not
seen any significant mortality in the
children but we are concerned about the
early reports coming out of Italy and
France this was another tough day for
Wall Street as the Dow dropped below
20,000 points for the first time since
February 2017 it has now wiped out all
of the gains made during the Trump
presidency
trading briefly came to a halt again
today earlier on CNBC today longtime
hedge fund manager Bill Ackman urged the
president to shut down the country and
the markets for a month to contain the
coronavirus and rescue the US economy
what would the president be asking the
American people to do he's not saying
yeah you know you know it's not saying
to storm the beaches at Normandy right
he's saying go home go home spend a
month with your family okay and I know
for some families that's a hardship okay
but it's nothing go home take a deep
breath you know spend time with loved
ones take care of your children what's
scaring the American people and and
corporate America is the gradual rollout
okay of what's going on we need to shut
it down now that is exactly what the Big
Three automakers did today GM Ford Fiat
Christ
temporarily shutting down their
factories here in the US in Mexico and
in Canada until at least March 30 an
unprecedented move that will affect
hundreds of thousands of factory
employees tonight Trump signed the
emergency coronavirus aid bill just
hours after it was passed by the Senate
this legislation provides free
coronavirus testing if you can find it
it ensures paid emergency leave as well
as additional Medicaid funding and
unemployment benefits Senate Republicans
are now working on a one trillion dollar
spending proposal that the White House
said would include 500 billion in direct
payments to Americans Trump also says he
plans to make another announcement about
his administration's effort to stop the
spread of this virus here's what he said
during a meeting with the heads of
nursing organizations the FDA will be
they've been working very very hard and
I appreciate what they're doing and I
think we have some very interesting
things that will be brought up tomorrow
at the news conference one more note
about the availability of tests as we
mentioned they are still extremely
difficult to get NBC News White House
correspondent Peter Alexander today
asked Trump why that wasn't the case for
some folks
our non symptomatic professional
athletes getting tests while others were
waiting in line and can't get them to
the well-connected go to the front of
the line well if you'd have to ask them
that question I mean the I've read no I
wouldn't say so but perhaps that's been
the story of life that does happen on
occasion and I've noticed where some
people have been tested fairly quickly
hey there I'm Chris Hayes from MSNBC
thanks for watching MSNBC on YouTube if
you want to keep up to date with the
videos we're putting out you can click
subscribe just below me or click over on
this list to see lots of other great
videos